- [Instructor] Hi and welcome back.
In this video we're looking at
some advanced set operations
and they're not gonna take very long.
There are just a couple of them
that I think you should know about.
Let's create a set that
I'm gonna call set_one
and this is gonna be one,
two, three, four, five
and then a set_two
that's gonna be one, three,
five, seven, nine, and 11.
A set is a collection of
unique and unordered elements.
Therefore what really matters
is which elements are in the set.
It doesn't matter if the
one is at the beginning
because this is unordered
so really we cannot get that.
What matters is the one is there,
the one is there.
The two is in set_one but
there is no two in set_two.
That's really what matters.
Which elements are in the set?
For example, you may have
a set of lottery numbers
that you have played
and you may have a set of
the winning lottery numbers
and you may wanna see
which numbers are in which.
So let's imagine set_one
is your_lottery_numbers
and set_two is the winning_numbers
so you've obviously earned
quite a lot of money
because there are quite
a few numbers there
that are the same three numbers.
So how would we check
if these numbers match?
Well we can
print(your_lottery_numbers.intersection(winning_numbers)).
This should be numbers.
I'm gonna comment out this
other print statement there
because we don't need it just now.
So we're printing something
a bit larger here.
Your_lottery_numbers is this first set
and we're gonna say .intersection
and that's another method
that is gonna take in
the other set inside the brackets.
So if you've ever done maths
you'll know what an intersection is
but if not let's just
look at what comes out
and we can run this again.
I'm actually gonna clear it first
and run it again.
What do you think is gonna come out
with the intersection of these two sets?
We get another set.
So this evidently produces a set
and that's the output
and the set contains one, three, and five
which as we know are the numbers
that are in the first set
and also in the second set.
So this calculates the
numbers that are in both sets.
Okay?
We can also do
print(your_lottery_numbers.union(winning_numbers)).
What do you think the union will print?
If you've done maths,
this is an easy question
but if not, I'll give you a wee hint.
Union is gonna essentially
add the sets together.
So our first set has five elements.
Our second set has seven elements.
A quick question for you.
Would you expect the set
that gets printed out
to have five plus seven, 12 elements?
Would you expect the set
that gets printed out to have 12 elements?
Hopefully you said no
because this set as you can
see only has nine elements.
Nine? 10?
Six, eight, eight elements, that's right.
Evidently I can't see very well
or rather count.
So the union is the one,
two, three, four, and five,
that's the first set here,
and we are uniting that
set with this other set.
So we do one, two, three, four, five
and we add the one to it
but one's already there
so we discard that.
Then we add three but
three's already there
so we discard that.
Then we add five but five's already there
And then we add seven, nine, and 11
so we end up with eight elements.
One, two, three, four,
five, seven, nine, and 11.
Remember there are no duplicates.
In sets every element has to be unique
so that's why one, three,
and five never appear.
Finally we can also do
print((1, 2, 3, 4).difference((1, 2)))
and that should be like that.
It doesn't matter in Python.
You can have them like this if you prefer
but I like my code to
look a specific way sadly
so there we go.
Okay, what do you think
this we're gonna print out?
One, two, three, four, difference.
What is the difference
between these two sets?
The difference between the
two sets is three and four.
That's the numbers that are different
and then we get three and four back.
So these three set operations
are really useful in some cases
and just not very useful at
all the majority of the time.
However if you know about these
there will be a moment in time
where you will realise that
this is the perfect solution
for something you wanna do
and then you'll know that this exists.
And most of the time you
won't use them at all
but nevertheless they are there
and if for example you wanna
calculate lottery numbers,
maybe you will,
then this is perfect,
the perfect tool really.
If you ever wanna deal with
unique and unordered things
then this is also a perfect tool.
So that's it for this video.
Hope you learned something here
and I'll see you in the very next one.